docs/commands/build.md, before:

# Cargo Lambda Build

Within a Rust project that includes a `Cargo.toml` file, run the `cargo lambda build` command to natively cross-compile your Lambda functions in the project to Linux. The resulting artifacts such as binaries or zips, will be placed in the `target/lambda` directory. This is an example of the output produced by this command:

```
❯ tree target/lambda
target/lambda
├── delete-product
│   └── bootstrap
├── dynamodb-streams
│   └── bootstrap
├── get-product
│   └── bootstrap
├── get-products
│   └── bootstrap
└── put-product
    └── bootstrap

5 directories, 5 files
```

The following video shows you how to use this subcommand:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ICUSfTorBnI" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you want to learn more abour cross-compiling Rust Lambda functions, checkout the [Cross Compiling Guide](/guide/cross-compiling).

## Output Format

By default, cargo-lambda produces a binary artifact for each Lambda functions in the project.
However, you can configure cargo-lambda to produce a ready to upload zip artifact.

The `--output-format` parameter controls the output format, the two current options are `zip` and `binary` with `binary` being the default.

Example usage to create a zip.

```
cargo lambda build --output-format zip
```

## Architectures

By default, cargo-lambda compiles the code for Linux X86-64 architectures, you can compile for Linux ARM architectures by providing the right target:

```
cargo lambda build --target aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

ℹ️ Starting in version 0.6.2, you can use the shortcut `--arm64` to compile your functions for Linux ARM architectures:

```
cargo lambda build --arm64
```

## Compilation Profiles

By default, cargo-lambda compiles the code in `debug` mode. If you want to change the profile to compile in `release` mode, you can provide the right flag.

```
cargo lambda build --release
```

When you compile your code in release mode, cargo-lambda will strip the binaries from all debug symbols to reduce the binary size.

## Extensions

cargo-lambda can also build Lambda Extensions written in Rust. If you want to build a extension, use the flag `--extension` to put the output under `target/lambda/extensions`, so you don't mix extensions and functions.

```
cargo lambda build --release --extension
```

If you want to create a zip file with the structure that AWS Lambda expects to find extensions in, add the `--output-format` flag to the previous command, and cargo-lambda will zip the extensions directory with your extension inside.

```
cargo lambda build --release --extension --output-format zip
```

If you're building an internal extension, add the `--internal` flag to the build command. You can skip this flag if you use `cargo lambda deploy` to deploy the extension later.

```
cargo lambda build --release --extension --internal --output-format zip
```

## Compiler backends

Cargo Lambda has an internal abstraction to work with different ways to compile functions.

The default compiler is `cargo-zigbuild`. This compiler uses [Zig](https://ziglang.org) to cross compile any Rust project to a Linux target on your own OS, without the need to a virtual machine or a Linux container. If Zig is not installed in your host machine, the first time that your run Cargo Lambda, it will guide you through some installation options. If you run Cargo Lambda in a non-interactive shell, the build process will fail until you install that dependency.

Cargo Lambda also supports building Rust projects without Zig as the target linker. This compiler is identifed as just `cargo`. A disadvantage of this is that it's up to you to guarantee that the binary works on Linux. An advantage is that if you always build functions on Linux, you don't need to install Zig to use Cargo Lambda.

Cargo Lambda supports building Rust projects with [cross](https://crates.io/crates/cross) as well. Read the [Cross Compiling reference](/guide/cross-compiling.html#cross-compiling-with-cross) to learn more abour using cross as the Lambda compiler.

### Switching compilers

To switch compilers, you can use the flag `--compiler` with the name of the compiler to use when you run `cargo lambda build`. For example:

```
cargo lambda build --compiler cargo
```

You can also use an environment variable to select the compiler:

```
export CARGO_LAMBDA_COMPILER=cargo
cargo lambda build
```

Additionally, you can also add this option in your project's `Cargo.toml` metadata. Add the snippet below if you want to use Cargo without Zig as linker in your project:

```
[package.metadata.lambda.build.compiler]
type = "cargo"
```

### Additional compilers

The concept of compilers on Cargo Lambda is an abstraction on top of different shell commands. If you want to add an additional compiler, you need to implement [Compiler](https://github.com/cargo-lambda/cargo-lambda/blob/main/crates/cargo-lambda-build/src/compiler/mod.rs#L14) trait. The command to execute needs to follow Rust compilations' convenctions, for example, if the user wants to build an Arm64 binary with the `release` profile, Cargo Lambda will expect that the resulting binary is in `target/aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu/release/`.

Commit message:

Add docs about release optimizations.
Signed-off-by: David Calavera <david.calavera@gmail.com>

docs/commands/build.md, after:

# Cargo Lambda Build

Within a Rust project that includes a `Cargo.toml` file, run the `cargo lambda build` command to natively cross-compile your Lambda functions in the project to Linux. The resulting artifacts such as binaries or zips, will be placed in the `target/lambda` directory. This is an example of the output produced by this command:

```
❯ tree target/lambda
target/lambda
├── delete-product
│   └── bootstrap
├── dynamodb-streams
│   └── bootstrap
├── get-product
│   └── bootstrap
├── get-products
│   └── bootstrap
└── put-product
    └── bootstrap

5 directories, 5 files
```

The following video shows you how to use this subcommand:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ICUSfTorBnI" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you want to learn more abour cross-compiling Rust Lambda functions, checkout the [Cross Compiling Guide](/guide/cross-compiling).

## Output Format

By default, cargo-lambda produces a binary artifact for each Lambda functions in the project.
However, you can configure cargo-lambda to produce a ready to upload zip artifact.

The `--output-format` parameter controls the output format, the two current options are `zip` and `binary` with `binary` being the default.

Example usage to create a zip.

```
cargo lambda build --output-format zip
```

## Architectures

By default, cargo-lambda compiles the code for Linux X86-64 architectures, you can compile for Linux ARM architectures by providing the right target:

```
cargo lambda build --target aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

ℹ️ Starting in version 0.6.2, you can use the shortcut `--arm64` to compile your functions for Linux ARM architectures:

```
cargo lambda build --arm64
```

## Compilation Profiles

By default, cargo-lambda compiles the code in `debug` mode. If you want to change the profile to compile in `release` mode, you can provide the right flag.

```
cargo lambda build --release
```

When you compile your code in release mode, cargo-lambda will apply some optimizations to make the binary size smaller. Check out the [Release Optimizations](/guide/release-optimizations) guide for more details.

## Extensions

cargo-lambda can also build Lambda Extensions written in Rust. If you want to build a extension, use the flag `--extension` to put the output under `target/lambda/extensions`, so you don't mix extensions and functions.

```
cargo lambda build --release --extension
```

If you want to create a zip file with the structure that AWS Lambda expects to find extensions in, add the `--output-format` flag to the previous command, and cargo-lambda will zip the extensions directory with your extension inside.

```
cargo lambda build --release --extension --output-format zip
```

If you're building an internal extension, add the `--internal` flag to the build command. You can skip this flag if you use `cargo lambda deploy` to deploy the extension later.

```
cargo lambda build --release --extension --internal --output-format zip
```

## Compiler backends

Cargo Lambda has an internal abstraction to work with different ways to compile functions.

The default compiler is `cargo-zigbuild`. This compiler uses [Zig](https://ziglang.org) to cross compile any Rust project to a Linux target on your own OS, without the need to a virtual machine or a Linux container. If Zig is not installed in your host machine, the first time that your run Cargo Lambda, it will guide you through some installation options. If you run Cargo Lambda in a non-interactive shell, the build process will fail until you install that dependency.

Cargo Lambda also supports building Rust projects without Zig as the target linker. This compiler is identifed as just `cargo`. A disadvantage of this is that it's up to you to guarantee that the binary works on Linux. An advantage is that if you always build functions on Linux, you don't need to install Zig to use Cargo Lambda.

Cargo Lambda supports building Rust projects with [cross](https://crates.io/crates/cross) as well. Read the [Cross Compiling reference](/guide/cross-compiling.html#cross-compiling-with-cross) to learn more abour using cross as the Lambda compiler.

### Switching compilers

To switch compilers, you can use the flag `--compiler` with the name of the compiler to use when you run `cargo lambda build`. For example:

```
cargo lambda build --compiler cargo
```

You can also use an environment variable to select the compiler:

```
export CARGO_LAMBDA_COMPILER=cargo
cargo lambda build
```

Additionally, you can also add this option in your project's `Cargo.toml` metadata. Add the snippet below if you want to use Cargo without Zig as linker in your project:

```
[package.metadata.lambda.build.compiler]
type = "cargo"
```

### Additional compilers

The concept of compilers on Cargo Lambda is an abstraction on top of different shell commands. If you want to add an additional compiler, you need to implement [Compiler](https://github.com/cargo-lambda/cargo-lambda/blob/main/crates/cargo-lambda-build/src/compiler/mod.rs#L14) trait. The command to execute needs to follow Rust compilations' convenctions, for example, if the user wants to build an Arm64 binary with the `release` profile, Cargo Lambda will expect that the resulting binary is in `target/aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu/release/`.
