docs/commands/introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

Cargo Lambda provides several subcommands for different tasks:

The [new](/commands/new) subcommand creates Rust packages from a well defined template to help you start writing AWS Lambda functions in Rust.

The [init](/commands/init) subcommand works like the `new` command but under an existent directory. Files present in that directory will be preserved as they were before running this command.

The [build](/commands/build) subcommand compiles AWS Lambda functions natively and produces artifacts which you can then [upload to AWS Lambda](/commands/deploy) or use with other ecosystem tools, like [SAM Cli](https://github.com/aws/aws-sam-cli) or the [AWS CDK](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk).

The [watch](/commands/watch) subcommand boots a development server that emulates interactions with the AWS Lambda control plane. This subcommand also reloads your Rust code as you work on it.

The [invoke](/commands/invoke) subcommand sends requests to the control plane emulator to test and debug interactions with your Lambda functions. This command can also be used to send requests to remote functions once deployed on AWS Lambda.

The [deploy](/commands/deploy) subcommand uploads functions to AWS Lambda. You can use the same command to create new functions as well as update existent functions code.

Cargo Lambda does not provide a command to delete the lambda once it is deployed. You can use the ```aws lambda delete-function --function-name NAME``` command from the AWS CLI.

Commit message:

feat: cargo lambda system (#668)
* feat: add cargo lambda system command

* docs: add sections on the system subcommand

* style: add space to Cargo.toml

docs/commands/introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

Cargo Lambda provides several subcommands for different tasks:

The [new](/commands/new) subcommand creates Rust packages from a well defined template to help you start writing AWS Lambda functions in Rust.

The [init](/commands/init) subcommand works like the `new` command but under an existent directory. Files present in that directory will be preserved as they were before running this command.

The [build](/commands/build) subcommand compiles AWS Lambda functions natively and produces artifacts which you can then [upload to AWS Lambda](/commands/deploy) or use with other ecosystem tools, like [SAM Cli](https://github.com/aws/aws-sam-cli) or the [AWS CDK](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk).

The [watch](/commands/watch) subcommand boots a development server that emulates interactions with the AWS Lambda control plane. This subcommand also reloads your Rust code as you work on it.

The [invoke](/commands/invoke) subcommand sends requests to the control plane emulator to test and debug interactions with your Lambda functions. This command can also be used to send requests to remote functions once deployed on AWS Lambda.

The [deploy](/commands/deploy) subcommand uploads functions to AWS Lambda. You can use the same command to create new functions as well as update existent functions code.

The [system](/commands/system) subcommand shows the status of the system Zig installation and installs Zig if it is not already installed.

Cargo Lambda does not provide a command to delete the lambda once it is deployed. You can use the ```aws lambda delete-function --function-name NAME``` command from the AWS CLI.
